---
title: portfolio_crawler
description: Golang script that allows for pulling data about the repositories present on a github profile with a documented ReadMe  and creating a markdown file with embedded yaml information
label: building
url: https://github.com/zidariu-sabin/portfolio_crawler
updatedat: "2025-12-11T22:21:56Z"
languages:
- name: Go
  color: "#00ADD8"
  size: 100.0
docfileoid: e267382
---
 # PortfolioCrawler

 This project represents a Golang script that allows for pulling documentation data from documented repositories present on a Github Profile in order to display in a portfolio.
 
 It takes out the specified doc files, together with some metadata about the repository that is going to be included in the files as a yaml front matter.
 The metadata currently includes:
 - name
 - description
 - url of the repository
 - last update date
 - languages used, with colors and percentage
 - Oid generated by Github of the file
 For personal purposes i have also created a **label** for all pulled repositories to state a status of "building"

## How to use it

Create a .env file with the contents of the .env.example file.

The github private access can be generated through the following steps:

- Go to GitHub.com > Settings > Developer Settings.
- Click “Personal access tokens” → Tokens (classic) or Fine-grained tokens.
- Click “Generate new token”
- Select the expiration date and scopes (e.g., repo, workflow, user, gist)
- Click Generate token.

With a [correctly configured](https://go.dev/doc/install#testing) Go toolchain, run:
```shell
go run main.go
```

The project will create
- a file for each repository with an existing docfile under the specified name file in the specified directory
- a reposMetaData.json file in the specified directory containing all the metadata as json

together with :

- a "repos.json" file with all the present repositories
- a "repo.yaml" file with the metadata of the last found repositoty 

for debugging purposes.

Checkout the [Implementation and Usage](https://github.com/zidariu-sabin/portfolio_crawler/blob/main/blogREADME.md) section to see how i used the generated files to create a portfolio section.